hello I'm Lucy gray the Israeli military
says it's striking Hamas Targets in all
parts of the Gaza Strip as well as
Hezbollah Targets in Lebanon an IDF
spokesman said it was hunting commanders
of the Palestinian militant group and
attacking infrastructure meanwhile the
Palestinian red cresant says the area
around the AL kuds Hospital in Gaza City
has been under heavy bombardment by
Israeli forces our Middle East
correspondent Yulan Nell
reports
shrouded in darkness the Gaza Strip is
pummeled from the air by Israeli air
strikes with flares raining down to Mark
targets and by day the devastation and
the huge human cost is clear it was the
subject of a briefing given to the UN
Security Council last night according to
figures from the Palestinian Ministry of
Health some 40% of the more than 8,300
people killed in Gaza were children
the true cost of this latest escalation
will be measured in children's lives
those lost to the violence and those
forever changed by it more than 420
children are being killed or injured in
Gaza every day a number that should
shake each of us to our core more than 3
weeks after Israel endured its bloodiest
ever day of attacks it's been expanding
its military operation to obliterate
Hamas which controls Gaza Israeli tanks
are now slowly advancing and the Israeli
Prime Minister rejects any idea of a
truce calls for a ceasefire are calls
for Israel to surrender to Hamas to
surrender to terrorism to surrender to
barbarism that will not
happen overnight a glimmer of hope for
Israelis celebrating after a soldier
said to have been rescued by the Army in
Gaza was brought home some 238 hostages
Israelis and foreigners snatched on the
7th of October remain captive earlier
these three Israeli women had been shown
in a video put out by
herass when I saw the image of Danielle
on TV my heart almost
stopped my wife and I were on one hand
shocked but on the other hand we felt
reliefed that we saw her alive and that
we see her until today we didn't know
anything about
her entire neighbor neigh hoods in Gaza
are being rendered
unrecognizable this fifth war in 15
years is the most brutal yet and Beyond
the fighting conditions grow tougher by
the day Aid agencies saying that a small
increase in the supplies now getting in
isn't nearly enough yoland Nell BBC News
Jerusalem well there are reports a 100
Aid trucks will be allowed into Gaza in
the coming days but the unra
spokesperson Juliet tumer says it's a
fraction of the help that's needed the
trucks that have been coming into the
Gaza Strip by the way not every day are
far from enough um before the war Gaza
received 500 trucks including of
humanitarian Aid so what we're having
right now is really a trickle Trickle
and does not correspond at all to the
huge and increasing humanitarian needs
on the ground in Gaza and in terms of
the amount of people that you have in
Gaza it's many thousands isn't it people
that have worked for you over the years
um what are they telling you from on the
situation on the ground about how
they're
coping well every day our sadness
deepens with um confirmation that we
keep getting that another colleague is
yet gone um yesterday we lost Samir he
was with his family and uh he was killed
with his eight children and his wife 64
leagues of ours at Andra have now been
killed in just over 3 weeks in this war
in the Gaza Strip
64 gosh and are they are the are the
people who who remain there are they
able to carry on their work now I mean
we've been hearing some agencies having
to to really just give up because the
situation is so
dire no we have not given up we have not
we have 13,000 people who have been
working with us uh in the Gaza Strip we
are the largest an agency in the Gaza
Strip one of the oldest that have been
working in Gaza with the Palestinian
communities teachers doctors Engineers
um support staff counselors
psychologists you name it I mean it's a
it's a very um big presence for us at
Andra in in the Gaza Strip and we have
been working with the Palestinian
communities now many many of our staff
have been impacted themselves due to
this war many have become displaced many
have lost loved ones many have lost
their own homes um many of them are just
exhausted they have been living in un
shelters for weeks on end now many
however continue to be on the front
lines giving the very little assistance
that we have um being with the
communities that we serve and fulfilling
their humanitarian mandates when we say
these are unsung heroes we mean it Andra
staff in Gaza are our unsung heroes
and they are the glimmer of humanity as
we sink into our Darkest Hours Juliet
tumer there talking to me she's from the
UN agency which looks after Palestinian
refugees let's speak to Abdul Basir
Hassan our reporter from BBC Arabic in
Cairo and I was listening to a military
spokesperson for Israel talking to the
BBC in the last half hour saying that
there could be a hundred trucks of Aid
entering from Egypt into Gaza by the end
of this week how feel feasible is that
in your
opinion well sources at the Rafa
Crossing just told us minutes ago that
another 60 tracks have already passed
through the Egyptian gate the Egyptian
side of the uh Crossing into the Zone
which Israel decided to be the point
where inspections are taking place
loading and unloading the tracks which
and the change would be there these 60
uh are now uh uh together with another
like 30
5 are being still at this point didn't
move to Gaza from yester night yester
night 60 entered uh to that point only
26 of them later at the night bed to the
uh Enclave now at the point there are 94
tracks at the loading and loading uh and
unloading and inspection point which is
almost like uh 60 M away from Rafa
Crossing according to Egyptian sources
yes there are a there is a significant
rise in the number we have been talking
over the last days about uh 14 15 16 20
tracks to yesterday and today we are
talking about 60 and 60 today as well
this came in fact after a call between a
conversation between Egyptian president
and and US president uh Biden which he
said more tracks will be allowed in and
we have heard uh reports from yester
night that the state department spoke
about the possibility of busing fuel to
Gaza but no date was set for this for
for the fuel tracks to to bus on so far
we are talking about food medicine and
water mainly and uh there is an expected
uh trip today to uh to the Border by the
Egyptian prime minister something new
might happen there we don't know exactly
uh why he would be there but there is
also an important meeting here in Cairo
between Ana Chief Philip laini and the
Egyptian foreign Ministry there could be
like a talk about the uh needs of the uh
of the STP especially after the uh
complaints that whatever the number of
tracks busing on it wouldn't amount to
the uh bad needs of the uh uh besieged
strip uh so therefore we might expect
from today's meeting more numbers to be
divulged on what should be coming in the
next days that's interesting that
they're discussing the possibility of
taking fuel in because of course Israel
says that it it won't allow fuel to go
into Gaza because of the concern that it
could ends up in the hands of
Hamas and this is very important but
still we are talking about reports from
the US side no mention of this from the
Israeli side or even from the Egyptian
side or even from the international
organizations working in the STP or
either here on the Egyptian side they
are in bad need there were calls that
and warning that unless we they get Fel
as soon soon as they can the services
and utilities are using fuel might
collapse and the the services are
offering for the needy in Gaza Strip
might uh come to a standoff therefore
still food is an essential need for the
gazans and therefore we hopefully after
the uh Egyptian Israeli and could be the
US contacts over the last hours there
could be like a breakthrough soon so
therefore we are waiting for this
significant change if it happened okay
thank you very much Abdul Basir Hassan
our reporter there in Cairo let's talk
more about the military operation that's
underway and speak to Anna Foster our
correspondent in southern Israel and
Israel's military talking about how it's
hitting all areas of the Gaza Strip now
and saying that it's had a large amount
of exchanges on the ground with Hamas
can you give us an update of what's
happened overnight and this morning so
far
Anna that's right Lucy well the Israel
Defense Forces have said this morning
that they have struck more than 300
Hamas Target inside Gaza in the last 24
hours or so and you can see and hear
really the ferocity of the battle that
is going on there we're hearing constant
air strikes and and outgoing artillery
fire from here in Israel and the
pictures that the Israel Defense Forces
are releasing now show their infantry
troops uh deep in inside Gaza you know
they're they're on the ground at the
start of this they were going in and
coming out again but they very much dug
into their positions now uh we're seeing
tanks on the on the beaches of Gaza
there and we're seeing this this
increasing push from north to south of
the strip as they try to eradicate Hamas
you Benjamin Netanyahu the Israeli Prime
Minister has been very clear that uh
that this is a military operation that
will continue until Hamas is defeated
until Hamas has been either destroyed or
or forced out of Gaza altogether and you
see the continuing military operation
which which seems to be getting stronger
every day moving towards that eventual
end but it's also worth saying that that
because we're seeing and hearing so much
activity does not mean that this will be
over quickly we heard from the Israeli
home front command last night they said
this will take this will take weeks if
not months it is a a very slow uh slow
progress uh towards their eventual goal
of destroying Hamas and meanwhile the
humanitarian situation in uh Gaza
deteriorates we have been hearing uh
some positive news though in that the US
and Israel talking about how there may
be around a hundred TR trucks of Aid
entering into G are from Egypt by the
end of this week and we were just
hearing from our reporter in Cairo
talking about how maybe 60 trucks have
gone into the inspection Zone uh at the
border there so that would be a big
increase from what we've seen so far
wouldn't
it it would but they've said this before
and it hasn't come to fruition just yet
for the last several weeks there's been
a lot of highlevel diplomatic
conversations going on about how to
increase the number of trucks that go in
and you remember in the early days for
for several days days you know we we
heard that trucks will go in today
trucks will go in today and they didn't
now there is a lot of work going on
behind the scenes No Doubt a lot of high
level diplomatic talks pressure from the
likes of the US which is Israel's
biggest diplomatic and and military ally
um certainly that is something that is
being worked towards the Israel Defense
Forces have said in in several of their
briefings now that that is something
that is being worked towards but I think
until we actually see those trucks Laden
with Aid passing fully through the raff
of Crossing and into Gaza uh it's all
just words really rather than actions
and I think when you look at those those
images that we saw over the weekend of
increasingly desperate people in Gaz are
actually breaking into to a un Warehouse
you know they were kind of carrying away
these big bags of of Wheat and and boxes
of basic supplies like like sanitation
and hygiene kits it shows you how
difficult the situation is there is a
real need for much more humanitarian Aid
to be getting in there and I think
that's where you see the difference
between the conversations that are
happening the words and what is actually
you know what we're actually seeing
there on the ground let's talk a bit
about the hostages because we saw
yesterday this um release well the
Israelis managed to free uh an is
Israeli soldier and she's been reunited
with her family we also saw that video
uh of three hostages being held by Hamas
and really messages from the relatives
of these hostages for the Israeli troops
to keep these hostages at the Forefront
of their minds as they are uh going into
Gaza yeah you can see exactly why the
hostage families would be saying that
because when you see the intensity of
what is going on here in Gaza and and
people are looking at that and knowing
that their family members their loved
ones their friends are somewhere
somewhere inside that narrow strip being
held by Hamas and Hamas are being
pummeled as they are by Israel you can
see why the hostage families are really
concerned about their welfare and they
have been speaking uh with a joint voice
and very loudly calling for you know
ongoing dialogue with Israel's defense
minister yoav Galant with Benjamin
Netanyahu the Israeli Prime Minister the
families were also talking about some
sort of potential hostage swap that they
would support you know there are
thousands of Palestinians being held in
jails in Israel the hostage families are
talking about a swap and it was
something that uh when the leader of
Hamas in Gaza yaka sinoa spoke for the
first time a few days ago he also talked
about is it something that that Israel
will entertain the idea of I don't know
it's hard to say they've done prisoner
swaps before but I think what is is
crucial right now is is that ongoing
pressure that the hostage families are
are putting on the government and
particularly when as you quite rightly
say there we saw that that video of
three hostages being held inside Gaza
clearly speaking under duress from Hamas
it you know that part of this story that
thread of this story is is really
present right at the Forefront of of
Mines here in Israel all the time and
that is why you see that continuing
pressure uh from the families and and
from you know ordinary Israelis as well
for the government to do everything they
can to to get those those people
released and huge International pressure
on Israel to consider some sort of pause
or some sort of ceasefire in this but as
you were saying you know benjin
Netanyahu has been so strong in in his
rejection of that idea hasn't
he that's right the Israeli message is
clear they say that what happened on
October the 7th you the brutal and
merciless killing of of more than 1,400
people many of them Israelis but for all
kinds of different nationalities in
these Southern communities here like the
one I'm I'm speaking to you from now you
know he is he's very clear that that
that cannot cannot be acceptable and
that the source of those attacks which
is Hamas in Gaza needs to be eradicated
now the reason we see the likes of the
UN General Assembly the UN Security
Council at Israel's allies Around the
World perhaps asking for these
ceasefires or humanitarian pauses often
isn't because they are they are telling
Israel that it can't defend itself that
they're very clear that they support
Israel's right to self-defense it's the
presence of the civilian community in
Gaza which I think is is giving rise to
those requests more than two million
people live inside that very small strip
of land that you can see behind me more
than half of them have been told to
leave the North and move into the South
because the north is where the fiercest
of battles are happening so you now have
this this desperate displaced civilian
population many of them women and
children who are losing their lives who
are being killed in this ongoing
bombardment so that is why these
diplomatic talks are ongoing um about
the the civilian population about the
humanitarian the growing humanitarian
issues inside Gaza but equally that is
why Israel is is so clear from its part
that it will continue to do what it
needs to do to to defend itself and and
to ensure its future security